docs/API.md, before:

# BlackEngine API Documentation

## Table of Contents
1. [Core Classes](#core-classes)
2. [Component System](#component-system)
3. [GUI System](#gui-system)
4. [Utility Classes](#utility-classes)
5. [Constants and Configuration](#constants-and-configuration)

## Core Classes

### Game Class
The main game class that manages the game loop, window, and core systems.

#### Constructor
```cpp
Game::Game()
```
Initializes the game window, physics world, and creates initial entities.

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void Initialize()
```
Sets up the game systems and starts the main loop.

#### Private Methods
```cpp
void Update()
void Render()
void MainLoop()
void Destroy()
void UpdatePhysics()
```

### EntityManager Class
Manages entity lifecycle and component operations.

#### Constructor
```cpp
EntityManager::EntityManager()
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
Entity& AddEntity(std::string entityName)
```
Creates and returns a new entity with the given name.

```cpp
void Update(float& deltaTime)
```
Updates all active entities and manages entity lifecycle.

```cpp
void Render(sf::RenderWindow& window)
```
Renders all active entities.

```cpp
void ClearData()
```
Destroys all entities and cleans up memory.

```cpp
bool HasNoEntities()
```
Returns true if no entities exist.

```cpp
std::vector<Entity*> GetEntities() const
```
Returns a vector of all entities.

```cpp
unsigned int GetentityCount() const
```
Returns the total number of entities.

### Entity Class
Represents a game object that can have multiple components.

#### Constructor
```cpp
Entity::Entity(EntityManager& manager, std::string name)
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
template<typename T, typename... Args>
T& AddComponent(Args&&... args)
```
Adds a component of type T to the entity.

```cpp
template<typename T>
T* GetComponent()
```
Returns a pointer to the component of type T, or nullptr if not found.

```cpp
template<typename T>
bool HasComponent()
```
Returns true if the entity has a component of type T.

```cpp
void Update(float deltaTime)
```
Updates all components of the entity.

```cpp
void Render(sf::RenderWindow& window)
```
Renders all renderable components.

```cpp
void Destroy()
```
Marks the entity for destruction.

```cpp
bool IsActive() const
```
Returns true if the entity is active.

```cpp
std::string GetName() const
```
Returns the entity's name.

## Component System

### Component Base Class
Base class for all components in the ECS system.

#### Public Members
```cpp
Entity* owner;
```

#### Virtual Methods
```cpp
virtual ~Component()
virtual void Initialize()
virtual void Update(float& deltaTime)
virtual void Render(sf::RenderWindow& window)
```

### TransformComponent
Manages position, scale, and rotation of entities.

#### Constructor
```cpp
TransformComponent(float posX, float posY, float width, float height, float scale)
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void Initialize() override
void Update(float& deltaTime) override
float GetWidth() const
float GetHeight() const
float GetScale() const
sf::Vector2f GetPosition() const
void SetPosition(sf::Vector2f position)
void SetWidth(float width)
void SetHeight(float height)
void SetScale(float scale)
void Translate(sf::Vector2f direction)
```

### SpriteComponent
Handles texture loading and sprite rendering.

#### Constructor
```cpp
SpriteComponent(const char* textureUrl, unsigned int col, unsigned int row)
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void Initialize() override
void Update(float& deltaTime) override
void Render(sf::RenderWindow& window) override
void SetFlipTexture(bool flip)
bool GetFlipTexture() const
sf::Vector2f GetOrigin() const
void RebindRectTexture(int col, int row, float width, float height)
```

### RigidBodyComponent
Integrates entities with Box2D physics.

#### Constructor
```cpp
RigidBodyComponent(b2World* world, b2BodyType bodyType, float density, 
                   float friction, float restitution, float angle, 
                   bool fixedRotation, void* userData)
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void Initialize() override
void Update(float& deltaTime) override
b2Body* GetBody() const
b2Vec2 GetBodyPosition() const
void SetBodyPosition(b2Vec2 position)
```

### AnimatorComponent
Manages animation playback and frame timing.

#### Constructor
```cpp
AnimatorComponent()
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void Initialize() override
void Update(float& deltaTime) override
void AddAnimation(std::string name, AnimationClip clip)
void PlayAnimation(std::string name)
void StopAnimation()
bool IsPlaying() const
std::string GetCurrentAnimation() const
```

### AudioListenerComponent
Handles audio playback and spatial audio.

#### Constructor
```cpp
AudioListenerComponent()
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void Initialize() override
void Update(float& deltaTime) override
void PlaySound(const AudioClip& clip)
void StopSound()
bool IsPlaying() const
void SetVolume(float volume)
float GetVolume() const
```

### Movement Component
Handles player movement with physics integration.

#### Constructor
```cpp
Movement(float speed, float friction, AudioClip stepSound)
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void Initialize() override
void Update(float& deltaTime) override
void SetSpeed(float speed)
float GetSpeed() const
void SetFriction(float friction)
float GetFriction() const
```

### FlipSprite Component
Automatically flips sprites based on movement direction.

#### Constructor
```cpp
FlipSprite()
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void Initialize() override
void Update(float& deltaTime) override
```

## GUI System

### Button Class
Interactive button component with texture support.

#### Constructor
```cpp
Button(TransformComponent& transform, float borderThickness, 
       sf::Color fillColor, sf::Color outlineColor, 
       std::function<void()> onClick)
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void Initialize() override
void Update(float& deltaTime) override
void Render(sf::RenderWindow& window) override
void SetTexture(std::string texturePath)
void SetText(std::string text)
void SetOnClick(std::function<void()> onClick)
bool IsHovered() const
bool IsClicked() const
```

### TextObject Class
Text rendering with custom fonts and styling.

#### Constructor
```cpp
TextObject(const char* fontPath, unsigned int fontSize, 
           sf::Color color, sf::Text::Style style)
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void SetTextStr(std::string text)
void SetFontSize(unsigned int size)
void SetColor(sf::Color color)
void SetPosition(sf::Vector2f position)
sf::Text* GetText() const
sf::FloatRect GetBounds() const
```

## Utility Classes

### AnimationClip Class
Represents an animation sequence with frame data.

#### Constructor
```cpp
AnimationClip(const char* jsonPath)
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void LoadFromJson(const char* jsonPath)
std::vector<AnimationFrame> GetFrames() const
int GetFrameCount() const
float GetDuration() const
AnimationFrame GetFrameAtTime(float time) const
```

### AudioClip Class
Represents an audio file for playback.

#### Constructor
```cpp
AudioClip(const char* audioPath)
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
bool LoadFromFile(const char* audioPath)
sf::SoundBuffer* GetBuffer() const
float GetDuration() const
bool IsLoaded() const
```

### TileGroup Class
Manages tile-based level rendering.

#### Constructor
```cpp
TileGroup(sf::RenderWindow* window, int mapWidth, int mapHeight, 
          const char* mapPath, float tileScale, int tileWidth, 
          int tileHeight, const char* tilesetPath)
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void LoadMap(const char* mapPath)
void LoadTileset(const char* tilesetPath)
void Draw()
void SetTileScale(float scale)
float GetTileScale() const
```

### ContactEventManager Class
Handles collision detection and event dispatching.

#### Constructor
```cpp
ContactEventManager()
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void BeginContact(b2Contact* contact) override
void EndContact(b2Contact* contact) override
void AddCollisionHandler(std::string entityA, std::string entityB, 
                        std::function<void(Entity*, Entity*)> handler)
```

### ImGuiManager Class
Manages ImGui debug interface and development tools.

#### Constructor
```cpp
ImGuiManager()
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void Initialize(sf::RenderWindow& window)
void ProcessEvent(const sf::Event& event)
void Update(sf::RenderWindow& window, sf::Time deltaTime)
void Render(sf::RenderWindow& window)
void Shutdown()
void ShowMainMenuBar()
void ShowDemoWindow()
void ShowDebugInfo()
void ShowEntityInfo()
void ShowTestWindow()
void RenderTestIndicator(sf::RenderWindow& window)
```

## Constants and Configuration

### Game Constants
```cpp
namespace GameConstants {
    constexpr float PLAYER_SPEED = 200.0f;
    constexpr float PLAYER_FRICTION = 0.28f;
    constexpr int PHYSICS_VELOCITY_ITERATIONS = 8;
    constexpr int PHYSICS_POSITION_ITERATIONS = 8;
    constexpr float TILE_SIZE = 16.0f;
    constexpr float TILE_SCALE = 4.0f;
    constexpr int MAP_WIDTH = 12;
    constexpr int MAP_HEIGHT = 12;
}
```

### Window Configuration
```cpp
const unsigned int WINDOW_WIDTH{760};
const unsigned int WINDOW_HEIGHT{760};
const char* GAME_NAME{"Game1"};
```

### Asset Paths
```cpp
const char* ASSETS_SPRITES{"assets/sprites.png"};
const char* ASSETS_TILES{"assets/tiles.png"};
const char* ASSETS_MAPS{"assets/maps/level1.grid"};
const char* ASSETS_FONT_ARCADECLASSIC{"assets/fonts/ARCADECLASSIC.ttf"};
```

## Usage Examples

### Creating a Simple Entity
```cpp
// Create entity
auto& player = entityManager.AddEntity("player");

// Add transform component
player.AddComponent<TransformComponent>(100.f, 100.f, 32.f, 32.f, 2.f);

// Add sprite component
player.AddComponent<SpriteComponent>(ASSETS_SPRITES, 0, 0);

// Add physics
player.AddComponent<RigidBodyComponent>(world, b2BodyType::b2_dynamicBody, 
                                       1, 0, 0, 0.f, true, &player);
```

### Creating an Animated Entity
```cpp
// Create animated entity
auto& enemy = entityManager.AddEntity("enemy");

// Add components
enemy.AddComponent<TransformComponent>(200.f, 200.f, 32.f, 32.f, 2.f);
enemy.AddComponent<SpriteComponent>(ASSETS_SPRITES, 1, 0);

// Add animation
auto& animator = enemy.AddComponent<AnimatorComponent>();
animator.AddAnimation("idle", AnimationClip("assets/animations/enemy/idle.json"));
animator.AddAnimation("walk", AnimationClip("assets/animations/enemy/walk.json"));

// Play animation
animator.PlayAnimation("idle");
```

### Creating Interactive UI
```cpp
// Create button entity
auto& button = entityManager.AddEntity("button");

// Add transform
auto& buttonTransform = button.AddComponent<TransformComponent>(50.f, 50.f, 100.f, 50.f, 1.f);

// Add button component
auto& buttonComp = button.AddComponent<Button>(buttonTransform, 2.f, 
                                              sf::Color::White, sf::Color::Black,
                                              []() { std::cout << "Button clicked!" << std::endl; });

// Set button texture
buttonComp.SetTexture("assets/GUI/button.png");
```

### Handling Collisions
```cpp
// In ContactEventManager.cc
void ContactEventManager::BeginContact(b2Contact* contact) {
    Entity* entityA = static_cast<Entity*>(contact->GetFixtureA()->GetBody()->GetUserData());
    Entity* entityB = static_cast<Entity*>(contact->GetFixtureB()->GetBody()->GetUserData());
    
    if (entityA && entityB) {
        if (entityA->GetName() == "player" && entityB->GetName() == "enemy") {
            // Handle player-enemy collision
            std::cout << "Player hit enemy!" << std::endl;
        }
    }
}
```

## Error Handling

### Component Access
```cpp
// Safe component access
if (auto* sprite = entity.GetComponent<SpriteComponent>()) {
    sprite->SetFlipTexture(true);
} else {
    std::cerr << "Entity missing SpriteComponent" << std::endl;
}
```

### Asset Loading
```cpp
// Check if assets loaded successfully
if (!texture.loadFromFile(texturePath)) {
    std::cerr << "Failed to load texture: " << texturePath << std::endl;
    // Handle error appropriately
}
```

### Physics Validation
```cpp
// Validate physics body
if (body && body->IsActive()) {
    body->SetLinearVelocity(b2Vec2(0, 0));
} else {
    std::cerr << "Invalid or inactive physics body" << std::endl;
}
```

---

This API documentation provides a comprehensive reference for all classes and components in the BlackEngine. For more detailed examples and tutorials, see the main README.md file.

Commit message:

Refactor EntityManager to use gsl::span for entities
EntityManager::GetEntities now returns gsl::span<Entity*> instead of std::vector<Entity*> for safer and more flexible access. Updated documentation and usage examples to reflect this change. Introduced Microsoft GSL for safer pointer handling throughout the codebase, replacing raw pointer dereferencing with gsl::not_null where appropriate.

docs/API.md, after:

# BlackEngine API Documentation

## Table of Contents
1. [Core Classes](#core-classes)
2. [Component System](#component-system)
3. [GUI System](#gui-system)
4. [Utility Classes](#utility-classes)
5. [Constants and Configuration](#constants-and-configuration)

## Core Classes

### Game Class
The main game class that manages the game loop, window, and core systems.

#### Constructor
```cpp
Game::Game()
```
Initializes the game window, physics world, and creates initial entities.

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void Initialize()
```
Sets up the game systems and starts the main loop.

#### Private Methods
```cpp
void Update()
void Render()
void MainLoop()
void Destroy()
void UpdatePhysics()
```

### EntityManager Class
Manages entity lifecycle and component operations.

#### Constructor
```cpp
EntityManager::EntityManager()
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
Entity& AddEntity(std::string entityName)
```
Creates and returns a new entity with the given name.

```cpp
void Update(float& deltaTime)
```
Updates all active entities and manages entity lifecycle.

```cpp
void Render(sf::RenderWindow& window)
```
Renders all active entities.

```cpp
void ClearData()
```
Destroys all entities and cleans up memory.

```cpp
bool HasNoEntities()
```
Returns true if no entities exist.

```cpp
gsl::span<Entity*> GetEntities() const
```
Returns a span of pointers to all entities managed by the EntityManager. Use range-based for or `.size()` for iteration and count.

```cpp
unsigned int GetentityCount() const
```
Returns the total number of entities.

### Entity Class
Represents a game object that can have multiple components.

#### Constructor
```cpp
Entity::Entity(EntityManager& manager, std::string name)
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
template<typename T, typename... Args>
T& AddComponent(Args&&... args)
```
Adds a component of type T to the entity.

```cpp
template<typename T>
T* GetComponent()
```
Returns a pointer to the component of type T, or nullptr if not found.

```cpp
template<typename T>
bool HasComponent()
```
Returns true if the entity has a component of type T.

```cpp
void Update(float deltaTime)
```
Updates all components of the entity.

```cpp
void Render(sf::RenderWindow& window)
```
Renders all renderable components.

```cpp
void Destroy()
```
Marks the entity for destruction.

```cpp
bool IsActive() const
```
Returns true if the entity is active.

```cpp
std::string GetName() const
```
Returns the entity's name.

## Component System

### Component Base Class
Base class for all components in the ECS system.

#### Public Members
```cpp
Entity* owner;
```

#### Virtual Methods
```cpp
virtual ~Component()
virtual void Initialize()
virtual void Update(float& deltaTime)
virtual void Render(sf::RenderWindow& window)
```

### TransformComponent
Manages position, scale, and rotation of entities.

#### Constructor
```cpp
TransformComponent(float posX, float posY, float width, float height, float scale)
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void Initialize() override
void Update(float& deltaTime) override
float GetWidth() const
float GetHeight() const
float GetScale() const
sf::Vector2f GetPosition() const
void SetPosition(sf::Vector2f position)
void SetWidth(float width)
void SetHeight(float height)
void SetScale(float scale)
void Translate(sf::Vector2f direction)
```

### SpriteComponent
Handles texture loading and sprite rendering.

#### Constructor
```cpp
SpriteComponent(const char* textureUrl, unsigned int col, unsigned int row)
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void Initialize() override
void Update(float& deltaTime) override
void Render(sf::RenderWindow& window) override
void SetFlipTexture(bool flip)
bool GetFlipTexture() const
sf::Vector2f GetOrigin() const
void RebindRectTexture(int col, int row, float width, float height)
```

### RigidBodyComponent
Integrates entities with Box2D physics.

#### Constructor
```cpp
RigidBodyComponent(b2World* world, b2BodyType bodyType, float density, 
                   float friction, float restitution, float angle, 
                   bool fixedRotation, void* userData)
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void Initialize() override
void Update(float& deltaTime) override
b2Body* GetBody() const
b2Vec2 GetBodyPosition() const
void SetBodyPosition(b2Vec2 position)
```

### AnimatorComponent
Manages animation playback and frame timing.

#### Constructor
```cpp
AnimatorComponent()
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void Initialize() override
void Update(float& deltaTime) override
void AddAnimation(std::string name, AnimationClip clip)
void PlayAnimation(std::string name)
void StopAnimation()
bool IsPlaying() const
std::string GetCurrentAnimation() const
```

### AudioListenerComponent
Handles audio playback and spatial audio.

#### Constructor
```cpp
AudioListenerComponent()
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void Initialize() override
void Update(float& deltaTime) override
void PlaySound(const AudioClip& clip)
void StopSound()
bool IsPlaying() const
void SetVolume(float volume)
float GetVolume() const
```

### Movement Component
Handles player movement with physics integration.

#### Constructor
```cpp
Movement(float speed, float friction, AudioClip stepSound)
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void Initialize() override
void Update(float& deltaTime) override
void SetSpeed(float speed)
float GetSpeed() const
void SetFriction(float friction)
float GetFriction() const
```

### FlipSprite Component
Automatically flips sprites based on movement direction.

#### Constructor
```cpp
FlipSprite()
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void Initialize() override
void Update(float& deltaTime) override
```

## GUI System

### Button Class
Interactive button component with texture support.

#### Constructor
```cpp
Button(TransformComponent& transform, float borderThickness, 
       sf::Color fillColor, sf::Color outlineColor, 
       std::function<void()> onClick)
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void Initialize() override
void Update(float& deltaTime) override
void Render(sf::RenderWindow& window) override
void SetTexture(std::string texturePath)
void SetText(std::string text)
void SetOnClick(std::function<void()> onClick)
bool IsHovered() const
bool IsClicked() const
```

### TextObject Class
Text rendering with custom fonts and styling.

#### Constructor
```cpp
TextObject(const char* fontPath, unsigned int fontSize, 
           sf::Color color, sf::Text::Style style)
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void SetTextStr(std::string text)
void SetFontSize(unsigned int size)
void SetColor(sf::Color color)
void SetPosition(sf::Vector2f position)
sf::Text* GetText() const
sf::FloatRect GetBounds() const
```

## Utility Classes

### AnimationClip Class
Represents an animation sequence with frame data.

#### Constructor
```cpp
AnimationClip(const char* jsonPath)
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void LoadFromJson(const char* jsonPath)
std::vector<AnimationFrame> GetFrames() const
int GetFrameCount() const
float GetDuration() const
AnimationFrame GetFrameAtTime(float time) const
```

### AudioClip Class
Represents an audio file for playback.

#### Constructor
```cpp
AudioClip(const char* audioPath)
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
bool LoadFromFile(const char* audioPath)
sf::SoundBuffer* GetBuffer() const
float GetDuration() const
bool IsLoaded() const
```

### TileGroup Class
Manages tile-based level rendering.

#### Constructor
```cpp
TileGroup(sf::RenderWindow* window, int mapWidth, int mapHeight, 
          const char* mapPath, float tileScale, int tileWidth, 
          int tileHeight, const char* tilesetPath)
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void LoadMap(const char* mapPath)
void LoadTileset(const char* tilesetPath)
void Draw()
void SetTileScale(float scale)
float GetTileScale() const
```

### ContactEventManager Class
Handles collision detection and event dispatching.

#### Constructor
```cpp
ContactEventManager()
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void BeginContact(b2Contact* contact) override
void EndContact(b2Contact* contact) override
void AddCollisionHandler(std::string entityA, std::string entityB, 
                        std::function<void(Entity*, Entity*)> handler)
```

### ImGuiManager Class
Manages ImGui debug interface and development tools.

#### Constructor
```cpp
ImGuiManager()
```

#### Public Methods
```cpp
void Initialize(sf::RenderWindow& window)
void ProcessEvent(const sf::Event& event)
void Update(sf::RenderWindow& window, sf::Time deltaTime)
void Render(sf::RenderWindow& window)
void Shutdown()
void ShowMainMenuBar()
void ShowDemoWindow()
void ShowDebugInfo()
void ShowEntityInfo()
void ShowTestWindow()
void RenderTestIndicator(sf::RenderWindow& window)
```

## Constants and Configuration

### Game Constants
```cpp
namespace GameConstants {
    constexpr float PLAYER_SPEED = 200.0f;
    constexpr float PLAYER_FRICTION = 0.28f;
    constexpr int PHYSICS_VELOCITY_ITERATIONS = 8;
    constexpr int PHYSICS_POSITION_ITERATIONS = 8;
    constexpr float TILE_SIZE = 16.0f;
    constexpr float TILE_SCALE = 4.0f;
    constexpr int MAP_WIDTH = 12;
    constexpr int MAP_HEIGHT = 12;
}
```

### Window Configuration
```cpp
const unsigned int WINDOW_WIDTH{760};
const unsigned int WINDOW_HEIGHT{760};
const char* GAME_NAME{"Game1"};
```

### Asset Paths
```cpp
const char* ASSETS_SPRITES{"assets/sprites.png"};
const char* ASSETS_TILES{"assets/tiles.png"};
const char* ASSETS_MAPS{"assets/maps/level1.grid"};
const char* ASSETS_FONT_ARCADECLASSIC{"assets/fonts/ARCADECLASSIC.ttf"};
```

## Usage Examples

### Creating a Simple Entity
```cpp
// Create entity
auto& player = entityManager.AddEntity("player");

// Add transform component
player.AddComponent<TransformComponent>(100.f, 100.f, 32.f, 32.f, 2.f);

// Add sprite component
player.AddComponent<SpriteComponent>(ASSETS_SPRITES, 0, 0);

// Add physics
player.AddComponent<RigidBodyComponent>(world, b2BodyType::b2_dynamicBody, 
                                       1, 0, 0, 0.f, true, &player);
```

### Creating an Animated Entity
```cpp
// Create animated entity
auto& enemy = entityManager.AddEntity("enemy");

// Add components
enemy.AddComponent<TransformComponent>(200.f, 200.f, 32.f, 32.f, 2.f);
enemy.AddComponent<SpriteComponent>(ASSETS_SPRITES, 1, 0);

// Add animation
auto& animator = enemy.AddComponent<AnimatorComponent>();
animator.AddAnimation("idle", AnimationClip("assets/animations/enemy/idle.json"));
animator.AddAnimation("walk", AnimationClip("assets/animations/enemy/walk.json"));

// Play animation
animator.PlayAnimation("idle");
```

### Creating Interactive UI
```cpp
// Create button entity
auto& button = entityManager.AddEntity("button");

// Add transform
auto& buttonTransform = button.AddComponent<TransformComponent>(50.f, 50.f, 100.f, 50.f, 1.f);

// Add button component
auto& buttonComp = button.AddComponent<Button>(buttonTransform, 2.f, 
                                              sf::Color::White, sf::Color::Black,
                                              []() { std::cout << "Button clicked!" << std::endl; });

// Set button texture
buttonComp.SetTexture("assets/GUI/button.png");
```

### Handling Collisions
```cpp
// In ContactEventManager.cc
void ContactEventManager::BeginContact(b2Contact* contact) {
    Entity* entityA = static_cast<Entity*>(contact->GetFixtureA()->GetBody()->GetUserData());
    Entity* entityB = static_cast<Entity*>(contact->GetFixtureB()->GetBody()->GetUserData());
    
    if (entityA && entityB) {
        if (entityA->GetName() == "player" && entityB->GetName() == "enemy") {
            // Handle player-enemy collision
            std::cout << "Player hit enemy!" << std::endl;
        }
    }
}
```

## Error Handling

### Component Access
```cpp
// Safe component access
if (auto* sprite = entity.GetComponent<SpriteComponent>()) {
    sprite->SetFlipTexture(true);
} else {
    std::cerr << "Entity missing SpriteComponent" << std::endl;
}
```

### Asset Loading
```cpp
// Check if assets loaded successfully
if (!texture.loadFromFile(texturePath)) {
    std::cerr << "Failed to load texture: " << texturePath << std::endl;
    // Handle error appropriately
}
```

### Physics Validation
```cpp
// Validate physics body
if (body && body->IsActive()) {
    body->SetLinearVelocity(b2Vec2(0, 0));
} else {
    std::cerr << "Invalid or inactive physics body" << std::endl;
}
```

---

This API documentation provides a comprehensive reference for all classes and components in the BlackEngine. For more detailed examples and tutorials, see the main README.md file.
