docs/DEVELOPMENT.md, before:

# BlackEngine Development Guide

## Table of Contents
1. [Development Setup](#development-setup)
2. [Code Style Guidelines](#code-style-guidelines)
3. [Adding New Components](#adding-new-components)
4. [Adding New Systems](#adding-new-systems)
5. [Asset Pipeline](#asset-pipeline)
6. [Testing and Debugging](#testing-and-debugging)
7. [Performance Optimization](#performance-optimization)
8. [Contributing Guidelines](#contributing-guidelines)

## Development Setup

### Prerequisites
- **macOS** (primary development platform)
- **CMake** 3.16+
- **Homebrew** for dependency management
- **Git** for version control
- **CLion** or **VSCode** (recommended IDEs)

### Initial Setup
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/jfcarocota/BlackEngineProject.git
cd BlackEngineProject

# Install dependencies
brew install sfml box2d jsoncpp

# Create build directory
mkdir cmake-build-debug
cd cmake-build-debug

# Configure project
cmake ..

# Build project
make
```

### IDE Configuration

#### CLion
1. Open the project in CLion
2. Set CMake build directory to `cmake-build-debug`
3. Configure run configuration to use `./BlackEngineProject`
4. Set working directory to `cmake-build-debug`

#### VSCode
1. Install C/C++ extension
2. Install CMake Tools extension
3. Configure `c_cpp_properties.json` for include paths
4. Set up build tasks in `tasks.json`

## Code Style Guidelines

### Naming Conventions
```cpp
// Classes: PascalCase
class TransformComponent : public Component { };

// Methods: camelCase
void setPosition(sf::Vector2f position);
float getWidth() const;

// Variables: camelCase
float deltaTime;
sf::Vector2f playerPosition;

// Constants: UPPER_SNAKE_CASE
constexpr float PLAYER_SPEED = 200.0f;
const char* ASSETS_SPRITES = "assets/sprites.png";

// Namespaces: PascalCase
namespace GameConstants { }
```

### File Organization
```
include/
├── Components/
│   ├── Component.hh          # Base component class
│   ├── TransformComponent.hh
│   └── SpriteComponent.hh
├── GUI/
│   ├── Button.hh
│   └── TextObject.hh
└── Core/
    ├── Game.hh
    └── EntityManager.hh

src/
├── Components/
│   ├── TransformComponent.cc
│   └── SpriteComponent.cc
├── GUI/
│   ├── Button.cc
│   └── TextObject.cc
└── Core/
    ├── Game.cc
    └── EntityManager.cc
```

### Include Guidelines
```cpp
// Standard library includes first
#include <vector>
#include <memory>
#include <iostream>

// Third-party includes
#include <SFML/Graphics.hpp>
#include <box2d/box2d.h>

// Project includes (relative to include directory)
#include "Components/Component.hh"
#include "Game.hh"
```

### Memory Management
```cpp
// Use smart pointers for ownership
std::unique_ptr<Game> game;
std::shared_ptr<Texture> sharedTexture;

// Avoid raw pointers for ownership
// ❌ Bad
Game* game = new Game();

// ✅ Good
auto game = std::make_unique<Game>();
```

## Adding New Components

### Step 1: Create Header File
```cpp
// include/Components/HealthComponent.hh
#pragma once
#include "Component.hh"
#include <SFML/Graphics.hpp>

class HealthComponent : public Component {
private:
    float maxHealth;
    float currentHealth;
    bool isAlive;

public:
    HealthComponent(float maxHealth);
    ~HealthComponent() override;
    
    void Initialize() override;
    void Update(float& deltaTime) override;
    void Render(sf::RenderWindow& window) override;
    
    // Health management
    void TakeDamage(float damage);
    void Heal(float amount);
    float GetHealthPercent() const;
    bool IsAlive() const;
};
```

### Step 2: Create Implementation File
```cpp
// src/Components/HealthComponent.cc
#include "Components/HealthComponent.hh"
#include "Components/Entity.hh"
#include <iostream>

HealthComponent::HealthComponent(float maxHealth) 
    : maxHealth(maxHealth), currentHealth(maxHealth), isAlive(true) {
}

HealthComponent::~HealthComponent() = default;

void HealthComponent::Initialize() {
    // Initialize component
}

void HealthComponent::Update(float& deltaTime) {
    // Update logic
    if (currentHealth <= 0 && isAlive) {
        isAlive = false;
        // Handle death
    }
}

void HealthComponent::Render(sf::RenderWindow& window) {
    // Render health bar or other visual elements
}

void HealthComponent::TakeDamage(float damage) {
    currentHealth = std::max(0.0f, currentHealth - damage);
}

void HealthComponent::Heal(float amount) {
    currentHealth = std::min(maxHealth, currentHealth + amount);
}

float HealthComponent::GetHealthPercent() const {
    return currentHealth / maxHealth;
}

bool HealthComponent::IsAlive() const {
    return isAlive;
}
```

### Step 3: Update Build Configuration
```cmake
# CMakeLists.txt
add_executable(BlackEngineProject
  # ... existing files ...
  src/Components/HealthComponent.cc
)
```

### Step 4: Usage Example
```cpp
// In Game.cc
auto& player = entityManager.AddEntity("player");
player.AddComponent<HealthComponent>(100.0f);

// Access component
if (auto* health = player.GetComponent<HealthComponent>()) {
    health->TakeDamage(20.0f);
}
```

## Adding New Systems

### Step 1: Create System Class
```cpp
// include/Systems/CombatSystem.hh
#pragma once
#include "Components/EntityManager.hh"
#include "Components/HealthComponent.hh"
#include <vector>

class CombatSystem {
private:
    EntityManager& entityManager;
    std::vector<std::pair<Entity*, Entity*>> combatPairs;

public:
    explicit CombatSystem(EntityManager& manager);
    ~CombatSystem();
    
    void Update(float deltaTime);
    void ProcessCombat();
    void AddCombatPair(Entity* attacker, Entity* target);
};
```

### Step 2: Implement System
```cpp
// src/Systems/CombatSystem.cc
#include "Systems/CombatSystem.hh"
#include "Components/HealthComponent.hh"

CombatSystem::CombatSystem(EntityManager& manager) 
    : entityManager(manager) {
}

CombatSystem::~CombatSystem() = default;

void CombatSystem::Update(float deltaTime) {
    ProcessCombat();
}

void CombatSystem::ProcessCombat() {
    for (auto& [attacker, target] : combatPairs) {
        if (attacker && target) {
            auto* attackerHealth = attacker->GetComponent<HealthComponent>();
            auto* targetHealth = target->GetComponent<HealthComponent>();
            
            if (attackerHealth && targetHealth) {
                // Process combat logic
                targetHealth->TakeDamage(10.0f);
            }
        }
    }
    combatPairs.clear();
}

void CombatSystem::AddCombatPair(Entity* attacker, Entity* target) {
    combatPairs.emplace_back(attacker, target);
}
```

### Step 3: Integrate with Game Class
```cpp
// include/Game.hh
class Game {
private:
    // ... existing members ...
    std::unique_ptr<CombatSystem> combatSystem;
    
public:
    // ... existing methods ...
};
```

```cpp
// src/Game.cc
Game::Game() {
    // ... existing initialization ...
    combatSystem = std::make_unique<CombatSystem>(entityManager);
}

void Game::Update() {
    // ... existing update logic ...
    combatSystem->Update(deltaTime);
}
```

## Asset Pipeline

### Sprite Sheet Guidelines
- **Format**: PNG with transparency
- **Grid**: Power of 2 tile sizes (16x16, 32x32, 64x64)
- **Naming**: `sprites.png`, `tiles.png`, `ui.png`

### Animation JSON Format
```json
{
  "name": "player_walk",
  "frameWidth": 16,
  "frameHeight": 16,
  "frameRate": 8,
  "frames": [
    {"x": 0, "y": 0, "duration": 0.125},
    {"x": 16, "y": 0, "duration": 0.125},
    {"x": 32, "y": 0, "duration": 0.125},
    {"x": 48, "y": 0, "duration": 0.125}
  ]
}
```

### Audio Guidelines
- **Format**: OGG for best compression
- **Sample Rate**: 44.1kHz
- **Channels**: Mono for effects, Stereo for music
- **Naming**: `steps.ogg`, `jump.ogg`, `background_music.ogg`

### Asset Loading Best Practices
```cpp
// Centralized asset management
class AssetManager {
private:
    std::unordered_map<std::string, sf::Texture> textures;
    std::unordered_map<std::string, sf::SoundBuffer> sounds;
    
public:
    sf::Texture& LoadTexture(const std::string& path);
    sf::SoundBuffer& LoadSound(const std::string& path);
    void PreloadAssets();
};
```

## Testing and Debugging

### Debug Output
```cpp
// Use consistent debug output
#ifdef DEBUG
    std::cout << "[DEBUG] Entity created: " << entityName << std::endl;
#endif

// Error logging
std::cerr << "[ERROR] Failed to load texture: " << path << std::endl;
```

### ImGui Debug Windows
```cpp
void ImGuiManager::ShowDebugInfo() {
    if (ImGui::Begin("Debug Info")) {
        ImGui::Text("FPS: %.1f", ImGui::GetIO().Framerate);
        ImGui::Text("Entities: %zu", entityManager.GetEntities().size()); // .size() works with gsl::span
        ImGui::Text("Delta Time: %.3f", deltaTime);
        
        if (ImGui::Button("Reset Game")) {
            // Reset game state
        }
    }
    ImGui::End();
}
```

### Physics Debugging
```cpp
// Enable physics debug drawing
flags += b2Draw::e_shapeBit;
flags += b2Draw::e_aabbBit;
world->SetDebugDraw(drawPhysics);
drawPhysics->SetFlags(flags);

// In render loop
if (debugPhysics) {
    world->DebugDraw();
}
```

### Performance Profiling
```cpp
// Simple frame time measurement
auto frameStart = std::chrono::high_resolution_clock::now();

// ... game logic ...

auto frameEnd = std::chrono::high_resolution_clock::now();
auto frameTime = std::chrono::duration_cast<std::chrono::microseconds>(frameEnd - frameStart);
std::cout << "Frame time: " << frameTime.count() << "μs" << std::endl;
```

## Performance Optimization

### Entity Management
```cpp
// Use object pools for frequently created/destroyed entities
class EntityPool {
private:
    std::vector<std::unique_ptr<Entity>> pool;
    std::vector<Entity*> available;
    
public:
    Entity* GetEntity();
    void ReturnEntity(Entity* entity);
};
```

### Component Access Optimization
```cpp
// Cache component pointers in Update methods
void SomeComponent::Update(float& deltaTime) {
    if (!transform) {
        transform = owner->GetComponent<TransformComponent>();
    }
    
    if (transform) {
        // Use cached pointer
        transform->SetPosition(newPosition);
    }
}
```

### Rendering Optimization
```cpp
// Batch similar sprites
class SpriteBatch {
private:
    std::vector<sf::Sprite> sprites;
    sf::Texture* texture;
    
public:
    void AddSprite(const sf::Sprite& sprite);
    void Render(sf::RenderWindow& window);
};
```

### Memory Optimization
```cpp
// Use move semantics
std::vector<Entity*> entities = std::move(newEntities);

// Reserve vector capacity
entities.reserve(expectedSize);

// Use references where possible
void UpdateEntity(Entity& entity);
```

## Contributing Guidelines

### Pull Request Process
1. **Fork** the repository
2. **Create** a feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/new-component`
3. **Make** your changes following the code style guidelines
4. **Test** your changes thoroughly
5. **Commit** with descriptive messages: `git commit -m "Add HealthComponent with damage system"`
6. **Push** to your fork: `git push origin feature/new-component`
7. **Create** a pull request with detailed description

### Commit Message Format
```
type(scope): description

[optional body]

[optional footer]
```

**Types:**
- `feat`: New feature
- `fix`: Bug fix
- `docs`: Documentation changes
- `style`: Code style changes
- `refactor`: Code refactoring
- `test`: Adding tests
- `chore`: Maintenance tasks

**Examples:**
```
feat(components): add HealthComponent with damage system
fix(physics): resolve collision detection edge case
docs(api): update component documentation
style(core): fix include style consistency
```

### Code Review Checklist
- [ ] Code follows style guidelines
- [ ] No memory leaks or undefined behavior
- [ ] Proper error handling implemented
- [ ] Documentation updated
- [ ] Tests added (if applicable)
- [ ] Performance impact considered
- [ ] Backward compatibility maintained

### Testing Requirements
```cpp
// Add unit tests for new components
#include <gtest/gtest.h>

TEST(HealthComponentTest, TakeDamage) {
    HealthComponent health(100.0f);
    health.TakeDamage(30.0f);
    EXPECT_EQ(health.GetHealthPercent(), 0.7f);
}

TEST(HealthComponentTest, Death) {
    HealthComponent health(100.0f);
    health.TakeDamage(100.0f);
    EXPECT_FALSE(health.IsAlive());
}
```

## Common Patterns

### Singleton Pattern (Use Sparingly)
```cpp
class AssetManager {
private:
    static AssetManager* instance;
    AssetManager() = default;
    
public:
    static AssetManager* GetInstance();
    static void DestroyInstance();
};
```

### Observer Pattern
```cpp
class EventSystem {
private:
    std::unordered_map<std::string, std::vector<std::function<void()>>> listeners;
    
public:
    void Subscribe(const std::string& event, std::function<void()> callback);
    void Emit(const std::string& event);
};
```

### Factory Pattern
```cpp
class EntityFactory {
public:
    static Entity& CreatePlayer(EntityManager& manager, float x, float y);
    static Entity& CreateEnemy(EntityManager& manager, float x, float y);
    static Entity& CreateItem(EntityManager& manager, float x, float y);
};
```

---

This development guide provides comprehensive information for extending and contributing to the BlackEngine. Follow these guidelines to maintain code quality and consistency across the project.

## Guidelines: Using Microsoft GSL

We use Microsoft GSL to express simple contracts and safer casts.

- Assertions and contracts
    - Include `<gsl/assert>` and use `Expects(expr)` for preconditions and `Ensures(expr)` for postconditions.
    - Examples in code: Movement, AnimatorComponent, TransformComponent.

- Not-null pointers
    - Use `gsl::not_null<T*>` for parameters that must never be null (e.g., `RigidBodyComponent` world pointer). Include `<gsl/gsl>` in the header.

- Narrowing casts
    - Prefer `gsl::narrow_cast<int>(value)` from `<gsl/narrow>` when converting to narrower integer types (e.g., SpriteComponent `sf::IntRect`).

- Spans
    - Use `gsl::span<T>` for non-owning views; see `EntityManager::GetEntities()`.

Build: GSL is fetched via CMake FetchContent and linked as a header-only dependency.

Commit message:

Adopt gsl::narrow_cast for safer type conversions
Replaced most static_cast<int> and similar casts with gsl::narrow_cast<int> in MapEditorMain.cpp and TileGroup.cc to improve type safety and prevent narrowing errors. Updated CMakeLists.txt to link Microsoft.GSL::GSL for the editor target. Documentation in DEVELOPMENT.md was expanded to describe the use of GSL and the new casting approach, as well as the addition of Expects guards in layer selection helpers.

docs/DEVELOPMENT.md, after:

# BlackEngine Development Guide

## Table of Contents
1. [Development Setup](#development-setup)
2. [Code Style Guidelines](#code-style-guidelines)
3. [Adding New Components](#adding-new-components)
4. [Adding New Systems](#adding-new-systems)
5. [Asset Pipeline](#asset-pipeline)
6. [Testing and Debugging](#testing-and-debugging)
7. [Performance Optimization](#performance-optimization)
8. [Contributing Guidelines](#contributing-guidelines)

## Development Setup

### Prerequisites
- **macOS** (primary development platform)
- **CMake** 3.16+
- **Homebrew** for dependency management
- **Git** for version control
- **CLion** or **VSCode** (recommended IDEs)

### Initial Setup
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/jfcarocota/BlackEngineProject.git
cd BlackEngineProject

# Install dependencies
brew install sfml box2d jsoncpp

# Create build directory
mkdir cmake-build-debug
cd cmake-build-debug

# Configure project
cmake ..

# Build project
make
```

### IDE Configuration

#### CLion
1. Open the project in CLion
2. Set CMake build directory to `cmake-build-debug`
3. Configure run configuration to use `./BlackEngineProject`
4. Set working directory to `cmake-build-debug`

#### VSCode
1. Install C/C++ extension
2. Install CMake Tools extension
3. Configure `c_cpp_properties.json` for include paths
4. Set up build tasks in `tasks.json`

## Code Style Guidelines

### Naming Conventions
```cpp
// Classes: PascalCase
class TransformComponent : public Component { };

// Methods: camelCase
void setPosition(sf::Vector2f position);
float getWidth() const;

// Variables: camelCase
float deltaTime;
sf::Vector2f playerPosition;

// Constants: UPPER_SNAKE_CASE
constexpr float PLAYER_SPEED = 200.0f;
const char* ASSETS_SPRITES = "assets/sprites.png";

// Namespaces: PascalCase
namespace GameConstants { }
```

### File Organization
```
include/
├── Components/
│   ├── Component.hh          # Base component class
│   ├── TransformComponent.hh
│   └── SpriteComponent.hh
├── GUI/
│   ├── Button.hh
│   └── TextObject.hh
└── Core/
    ├── Game.hh
    └── EntityManager.hh

src/
├── Components/
│   ├── TransformComponent.cc
│   └── SpriteComponent.cc
├── GUI/
│   ├── Button.cc
│   └── TextObject.cc
└── Core/
    ├── Game.cc
    └── EntityManager.cc
```

### Include Guidelines
```cpp
// Standard library includes first
#include <vector>
#include <memory>
#include <iostream>

// Third-party includes
#include <SFML/Graphics.hpp>
#include <box2d/box2d.h>

// Project includes (relative to include directory)
#include "Components/Component.hh"
#include "Game.hh"
```

### Memory Management
```cpp
// Use smart pointers for ownership
std::unique_ptr<Game> game;
std::shared_ptr<Texture> sharedTexture;

// Avoid raw pointers for ownership
// ❌ Bad
Game* game = new Game();

// ✅ Good
auto game = std::make_unique<Game>();
```

## Adding New Components

### Step 1: Create Header File
```cpp
// include/Components/HealthComponent.hh
#pragma once
#include "Component.hh"
#include <SFML/Graphics.hpp>

class HealthComponent : public Component {
private:
    float maxHealth;
    float currentHealth;
    bool isAlive;

public:
    HealthComponent(float maxHealth);
    ~HealthComponent() override;
    
    void Initialize() override;
    void Update(float& deltaTime) override;
    void Render(sf::RenderWindow& window) override;
    
    // Health management
    void TakeDamage(float damage);
    void Heal(float amount);
    float GetHealthPercent() const;
    bool IsAlive() const;
};
```

### Step 2: Create Implementation File
```cpp
// src/Components/HealthComponent.cc
#include "Components/HealthComponent.hh"
#include "Components/Entity.hh"
#include <iostream>

HealthComponent::HealthComponent(float maxHealth) 
    : maxHealth(maxHealth), currentHealth(maxHealth), isAlive(true) {
}

HealthComponent::~HealthComponent() = default;

void HealthComponent::Initialize() {
    // Initialize component
}

void HealthComponent::Update(float& deltaTime) {
    // Update logic
    if (currentHealth <= 0 && isAlive) {
        isAlive = false;
        // Handle death
    }
}

void HealthComponent::Render(sf::RenderWindow& window) {
    // Render health bar or other visual elements
}

void HealthComponent::TakeDamage(float damage) {
    currentHealth = std::max(0.0f, currentHealth - damage);
}

void HealthComponent::Heal(float amount) {
    currentHealth = std::min(maxHealth, currentHealth + amount);
}

float HealthComponent::GetHealthPercent() const {
    return currentHealth / maxHealth;
}

bool HealthComponent::IsAlive() const {
    return isAlive;
}
```

### Step 3: Update Build Configuration
```cmake
# CMakeLists.txt
add_executable(BlackEngineProject
  # ... existing files ...
  src/Components/HealthComponent.cc
)
```

### Step 4: Usage Example
```cpp
// In Game.cc
auto& player = entityManager.AddEntity("player");
player.AddComponent<HealthComponent>(100.0f);

// Access component
if (auto* health = player.GetComponent<HealthComponent>()) {
    health->TakeDamage(20.0f);
}
```

## Adding New Systems

### Step 1: Create System Class
```cpp
// include/Systems/CombatSystem.hh
#pragma once
#include "Components/EntityManager.hh"
#include "Components/HealthComponent.hh"
#include <vector>

class CombatSystem {
private:
    EntityManager& entityManager;
    std::vector<std::pair<Entity*, Entity*>> combatPairs;

public:
    explicit CombatSystem(EntityManager& manager);
    ~CombatSystem();
    
    void Update(float deltaTime);
    void ProcessCombat();
    void AddCombatPair(Entity* attacker, Entity* target);
};
```

### Step 2: Implement System
```cpp
// src/Systems/CombatSystem.cc
#include "Systems/CombatSystem.hh"
#include "Components/HealthComponent.hh"

CombatSystem::CombatSystem(EntityManager& manager) 
    : entityManager(manager) {
}

CombatSystem::~CombatSystem() = default;

void CombatSystem::Update(float deltaTime) {
    ProcessCombat();
}

void CombatSystem::ProcessCombat() {
    for (auto& [attacker, target] : combatPairs) {
        if (attacker && target) {
            auto* attackerHealth = attacker->GetComponent<HealthComponent>();
            auto* targetHealth = target->GetComponent<HealthComponent>();
            
            if (attackerHealth && targetHealth) {
                // Process combat logic
                targetHealth->TakeDamage(10.0f);
            }
        }
    }
    combatPairs.clear();
}

void CombatSystem::AddCombatPair(Entity* attacker, Entity* target) {
    combatPairs.emplace_back(attacker, target);
}
```

### Step 3: Integrate with Game Class
```cpp
// include/Game.hh
class Game {
private:
    // ... existing members ...
    std::unique_ptr<CombatSystem> combatSystem;
    
public:
    // ... existing methods ...
};
```

```cpp
// src/Game.cc
Game::Game() {
    // ... existing initialization ...
    combatSystem = std::make_unique<CombatSystem>(entityManager);
}

void Game::Update() {
    // ... existing update logic ...
    combatSystem->Update(deltaTime);
}
```

## Asset Pipeline

### Sprite Sheet Guidelines
- **Format**: PNG with transparency
- **Grid**: Power of 2 tile sizes (16x16, 32x32, 64x64)
- **Naming**: `sprites.png`, `tiles.png`, `ui.png`

### Animation JSON Format
```json
{
  "name": "player_walk",
  "frameWidth": 16,
  "frameHeight": 16,
  "frameRate": 8,
  "frames": [
    {"x": 0, "y": 0, "duration": 0.125},
    {"x": 16, "y": 0, "duration": 0.125},
    {"x": 32, "y": 0, "duration": 0.125},
    {"x": 48, "y": 0, "duration": 0.125}
  ]
}
```

### Audio Guidelines
- **Format**: OGG for best compression
- **Sample Rate**: 44.1kHz
- **Channels**: Mono for effects, Stereo for music
- **Naming**: `steps.ogg`, `jump.ogg`, `background_music.ogg`

### Asset Loading Best Practices
```cpp
// Centralized asset management
class AssetManager {
private:
    std::unordered_map<std::string, sf::Texture> textures;
    std::unordered_map<std::string, sf::SoundBuffer> sounds;
    
public:
    sf::Texture& LoadTexture(const std::string& path);
    sf::SoundBuffer& LoadSound(const std::string& path);
    void PreloadAssets();
};
```

## Testing and Debugging

### Debug Output
```cpp
// Use consistent debug output
#ifdef DEBUG
    std::cout << "[DEBUG] Entity created: " << entityName << std::endl;
#endif

// Error logging
std::cerr << "[ERROR] Failed to load texture: " << path << std::endl;
```

### ImGui Debug Windows
```cpp
void ImGuiManager::ShowDebugInfo() {
    if (ImGui::Begin("Debug Info")) {
        ImGui::Text("FPS: %.1f", ImGui::GetIO().Framerate);
        ImGui::Text("Entities: %zu", entityManager.GetEntities().size()); // .size() works with gsl::span
        ImGui::Text("Delta Time: %.3f", deltaTime);
        
        if (ImGui::Button("Reset Game")) {
            // Reset game state
        }
    }
    ImGui::End();
}
```

### Physics Debugging
```cpp
// Enable physics debug drawing
flags += b2Draw::e_shapeBit;
flags += b2Draw::e_aabbBit;
world->SetDebugDraw(drawPhysics);
drawPhysics->SetFlags(flags);

// In render loop
if (debugPhysics) {
    world->DebugDraw();
}
```

### Performance Profiling
```cpp
// Simple frame time measurement
auto frameStart = std::chrono::high_resolution_clock::now();

// ... game logic ...

auto frameEnd = std::chrono::high_resolution_clock::now();
auto frameTime = std::chrono::duration_cast<std::chrono::microseconds>(frameEnd - frameStart);
std::cout << "Frame time: " << frameTime.count() << "μs" << std::endl;
```

## Performance Optimization

### Entity Management
```cpp
// Use object pools for frequently created/destroyed entities
class EntityPool {
private:
    std::vector<std::unique_ptr<Entity>> pool;
    std::vector<Entity*> available;
    
public:
    Entity* GetEntity();
    void ReturnEntity(Entity* entity);
};
```

### Component Access Optimization
```cpp
// Cache component pointers in Update methods
void SomeComponent::Update(float& deltaTime) {
    if (!transform) {
        transform = owner->GetComponent<TransformComponent>();
    }
    
    if (transform) {
        // Use cached pointer
        transform->SetPosition(newPosition);
    }
}
```

### Rendering Optimization
```cpp
// Batch similar sprites
class SpriteBatch {
private:
    std::vector<sf::Sprite> sprites;
    sf::Texture* texture;
    
public:
    void AddSprite(const sf::Sprite& sprite);
    void Render(sf::RenderWindow& window);
};
```

### Memory Optimization
```cpp
// Use move semantics
std::vector<Entity*> entities = std::move(newEntities);

// Reserve vector capacity
entities.reserve(expectedSize);

// Use references where possible
void UpdateEntity(Entity& entity);
```

## Contributing Guidelines

### Pull Request Process
1. **Fork** the repository
2. **Create** a feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/new-component`
3. **Make** your changes following the code style guidelines
4. **Test** your changes thoroughly
5. **Commit** with descriptive messages: `git commit -m "Add HealthComponent with damage system"`
6. **Push** to your fork: `git push origin feature/new-component`
7. **Create** a pull request with detailed description

### Commit Message Format
```
type(scope): description

[optional body]

[optional footer]
```

**Types:**
- `feat`: New feature
- `fix`: Bug fix
- `docs`: Documentation changes
- `style`: Code style changes
- `refactor`: Code refactoring
- `test`: Adding tests
- `chore`: Maintenance tasks

**Examples:**
```
feat(components): add HealthComponent with damage system
fix(physics): resolve collision detection edge case
docs(api): update component documentation
style(core): fix include style consistency
```

### Code Review Checklist
- [ ] Code follows style guidelines
- [ ] No memory leaks or undefined behavior
- [ ] Proper error handling implemented
- [ ] Documentation updated
- [ ] Tests added (if applicable)
- [ ] Performance impact considered
- [ ] Backward compatibility maintained

### Testing Requirements
```cpp
// Add unit tests for new components
#include <gtest/gtest.h>

TEST(HealthComponentTest, TakeDamage) {
    HealthComponent health(100.0f);
    health.TakeDamage(30.0f);
    EXPECT_EQ(health.GetHealthPercent(), 0.7f);
}

TEST(HealthComponentTest, Death) {
    HealthComponent health(100.0f);
    health.TakeDamage(100.0f);
    EXPECT_FALSE(health.IsAlive());
}
```

## Common Patterns

### Singleton Pattern (Use Sparingly)
```cpp
class AssetManager {
private:
    static AssetManager* instance;
    AssetManager() = default;
    
public:
    static AssetManager* GetInstance();
    static void DestroyInstance();
};
```

### Observer Pattern
```cpp
class EventSystem {
private:
    std::unordered_map<std::string, std::vector<std::function<void()>>> listeners;
    
public:
    void Subscribe(const std::string& event, std::function<void()> callback);
    void Emit(const std::string& event);
};
```

### Factory Pattern
```cpp
class EntityFactory {
public:
    static Entity& CreatePlayer(EntityManager& manager, float x, float y);
    static Entity& CreateEnemy(EntityManager& manager, float x, float y);
    static Entity& CreateItem(EntityManager& manager, float x, float y);
};
```

---

This development guide provides comprehensive information for extending and contributing to the BlackEngine. Follow these guidelines to maintain code quality and consistency across the project.

## Guidelines: Using Microsoft GSL

We use Microsoft GSL to express simple contracts and safer casts.

- Assertions and contracts
    - Include `<gsl/assert>` and use `Expects(expr)` for preconditions and `Ensures(expr)` for postconditions.
    - Examples in code: Movement, AnimatorComponent, TransformComponent.

- Not-null pointers
    - Use `gsl::not_null<T*>` for parameters that must never be null (e.g., `RigidBodyComponent` world pointer). Include `<gsl/gsl>` in the header.

- Narrowing casts
    - Prefer `gsl::narrow_cast<int>(value)` from `<gsl/narrow>` when converting to narrower integer types (e.g., SpriteComponent `sf::IntRect`).

- Spans
    - Use `gsl::span<T>` for non-owning views; see `EntityManager::GetEntities()`.

Build: GSL is fetched via CMake FetchContent and linked as a header-only dependency. Both the game target (`BlackEngineProject`) and the editor (`TileMapEditor`) link `Microsoft.GSL::GSL`.

Editor notes:
- The Tile Map Editor (`src/MapEditorMain.cpp`) uses `gsl::narrow_cast` for:
    - Computing window and grid sizes (ints from floats),
    - Building `sf::IntRect` for tileset thumbnails,
    - Iterating over grids and layer indices.
- Lightweight `Expects(...)` guards are added in layer selection helpers.
